What I would like us to
do is position all of
our film flowers by the genres
that they share and
bonus points if we can make it work with
our filters at the same filters as before.
And Just to show how the end
result should look like.
I'm gonna give a slight disclaimer now
that I'm on a 2015 MacBook Pro and
it is not handling
the force calculation very
well with everything else
that I'm putting out there.
No, so and it might look a bit janky but
usually it should be much smoother.
And this is one of those
examples where there's so
much animation going
on that definitely for
older devices it's gonna
look very laggy and janky.
And this is where I would recommend
that we move away from SVG and
use Canvas instead.
But we don't have the time for that today.
So we'll just deal with this add
kinda slight bit janky animation
that's going on.
And if you're working on your own project,
and
this is about where I would consider
using Canvas, html5 Canvas.
So it is very slowly, patiently,
it started at some random positions,
and it's trying to kind of like you
can see it playing nudging each
other because I have some forces applied.
That says that don't overlap each other.
But then I also have some links so
that they're attracting each other.
So it's like struggling to find
an optimal layout right now.
But what's happening is it's
already really cool to see
because the movies are positioned
by the genres they share.
You can actually start to see like
the genres that are closer to each other
like the sci fi action,
adventure, horror and fantasy.
You can see like rom com is close
to each other and drama and crime.
And so like even from that perspective,
forced layouts are really fun and
really fun option.
And I think what makes this potentially
even better is if we have the filter and
we can be like I wanna see all of
the movies positioned like this but
without the R rated movies.
And then it will start to reposition and
what if I only wanna see the GMP
g ones and then there we go.
And whoa,
he is really going at it in there.
And, and it's all of the GMP
g rated movies are comedy and
family and animation and
ventures and mystery and
you can see that like it's
like Scooby Doo or Toy Story.
So a lot of really great potential for
the force layout.
So I'm going to actually like, stop this.
I'm gonna comment out
this cell because and
I would suggest you do the same thing
because if we keep having it and
run it,
it's just gonna bog our notebook down so
much that we're not going to be
able to do our exercise together.
So and before actually,
before I get started on this code,
I wanna kind of show you
my graph calculations.
So this is the function that I'm using to
turn our movies data into the node and
link set of arrays that
D3 force needs to do
its calculations and so
I'm creating a nodes and
links, arrays and then one genres object.
And I'm going through and I'm pushing
the flowers into my nodes array.
So here, some basically looping
through all of the filtered movies and
I'm finding,
I'm finding the corresponding flower and
I'm pushing the flowers
into the nodes array.
And then, for
each of the genres on that film,
I'm going to loop through
all of the genres and
I'm saying I go and find the genre and
if it doesn't exist, then create it and,
and and
set the genre on the genres object.
And finally create a new link where
the source is the genre object and
the target is a flower object.
And I'm saying return the nodes array,
the links array and
their genres turned into an array also.
And so
this is what we're seeing is a graph and
it has all these different arrays.
So we will use this graph
array to do our code.